FITTER_MC,      Neil Drummond,       18/4/2006
==============================================

This is a general-purpose bootstrap Monte Carlo utility for fitting a
model to a set of (x,y,err_y) data and obtaining both fitted parameter
values with error bars and properties expressed in terms of those
parameters with error bars.  The name of the data file can be
specified as a command-line argument.  The program works by repeatedly
resampling the data and fitting the model.  When the data are
resampled, each y value is replaced by a number drawn from a Gaussian
distribution whose mean is the supplied y value and whose standard
deviation is the supplied standard error in y.  The model is fitted to
each set of resampled data by mininising the chi-squared function.
The mean and standard error in the mean of the model parameters and
derived properties are evaluated by averaging over the fits to the
resampled data.

The program is written in Fortran 2003 and parallelised using OpenMP.

If you wish to change the model, you only need to alter the three
subroutines in bootstrap.f90 containing the comment

  YOU NEED TO CHANGE THIS SUBROUTINE IF YOU HAVE A NEW MODEL.

To compile, type e.g. "make F90=ifort BUILD=debug OPENMP=no".  By
default the Fortran compiler is gfortran (F90=gfortran), optimisation
flags are used (BUILD=opt) and OpenMP is used (OPENMP=yes).

To run, type

   ./fitter_mc datafile.dat

where datafile is a text file holding (x,y,err_y) in three columns.

The program uses the nl2sol (TOMS 573) algorithm to perform the fit of
the model for each resampled data set.  Specifically it uses nl2sno,
which does not require the Jacobian matrix (derivatives of residuals
with respect to parameters).  If you wish to code this up for your
model then you can introduce a subroutine madj for evaluating the
Jacobian matrix and replace the call to nl2sno with a call to nl2sol.
However, in most cases nl2sno works just fine without analytical
derivatives.

To change the number of samples used for bootstrapping, please alter
the nrand_points parameter in bootstrap.f90.

As well as nl2sol (TOMS 573), this program uses mrgrnk from ORDERPACK
for sorting and ranlux for random-number generation.


MCFIT,      Neil Drummond,       21/09/2019
===========================================

For cross-checking purposes, a simple Python script for performing
bootstrap Monte Carlo fitting called mcfit.py is also included.  This
program is much shorter and much slower than its Fortran equivalent.
To insert a new model, again look for the comment

  YOU NEED TO CHANGE THIS SUBROUTINE IF YOU HAVE A NEW MODEL.

To run, type

   ./mcfit.py datafile.dat

If you wish to code up derivatives with respect to parameters, you can
give the fitting routine a helping hand.
